So what exactly do we mean when we say that we pre
train and fine tune a large language model? Well, think
back to when you were in school. To start, you learn a broad range
of subjects and topics to get a base understanding of the
world around you. However, later, as you
choose your career, you'll have focused your attention to more
specific subjects focused on that career. You still
reference what you've learned in those early years at school and build on
it to understand new knowledge related to your specific field.
It's kind of the same concept with LLMs. They're pre
trained to solve a variety of language problems and then they can be
fine tuned to work in specific fields such as media,
finance, transport, medicine, etcetera in the pre training
phrase. And then the large language model is exposed to
a massive amount of text data from the Internet.
It learns the basis of language like grammar, vocabulary, and common
sense by predicting what words will come next
in sentences. And this is similar to you
learning how to speak, write, and get some general knowledge in
your early school years. Once the model has a
good grasp of the basics, it can be customized for specific
tasks. So for example, you might want
it to be really good at answering medical questions or helping with
customer service inquiries. In the
fine tuning phase, the LLM is trained on the smaller more
specialized data set related to the specific tasks
that you wanted to do. It takes the skills that it learned during
pre training and it gets better at the specific task you
wanted to do. You can always think of it like
you taking this course now. You stay you still
kind of reference that very early stuff that you learn in school, but we're really
specializing your skills now with this course because large language models
have been pretrained on such large amounts of data. They can often even do
well on tasks without additional industry specific
data. They can be used for what is known as few shot or
zero shot scenarios. A few shot scenario
is where we use minimal data to train a model, and the
zero shot is where the model can recognize things that it
has not been explicitly taught in the training before.
So in some cases, you're able to use a LLM straight out of the box
without any additional data.